[RENA]
Thank you, Lord Oyashiro.
[RENA] Guys, did any of you
notice Keiichi and Satoko
running off somewhere?
I'm pretty sure they
were still there with us
for most of the ceremony.
We did finally reach
the end of a long battle.
No doubt they're off
in some hidden spot now,
savoring the sweet
taste of victory.
Awoo!
But why are those two
savoring it alone? Why?
[laughs]
They are at that age!
We're definitely gonna have
to give 'em the third degree
when we catch up
with 'em tomorrow.
Well, Hanyuu,
we had to push against
fate to rescue Satoko,
but in the end,
we broke through it.
So I know, even if
fate still wants me dead,
as long as I have my friends,
we can break through it
one more time.
It doesn't look like Keiichi
and Satoko ever turned up, huh?
I'd probably better
make my way home too,
else Grandma's gonna force me
to talk with my relatives.
I think I'll go with you.
I can stay out in the
guest house for the night.
Huh?
Oh! Rika's here!
Something wrong, dear?
Have you seen Tomitake anywhere?
If you saw Takano,
then he may have been
somewhere close by.
Yeah, I just
saw the two of them.
They were out in
the parking lot.
[ALL]
Huh?
Ooishi's here?
[OOISHI chuckles]
I finally found you.
Ms. Rika Furude!
[VILLAGER A]
Detective?
[VILLAGER B]
What the hell are you doing?
[gags]
Why would you do this?
Rika!
[SHION]
What are you doing?
Now I finally
understand everything!
[VILLAGER A]
Hey, whatever this is about‐‐
[gunshot]
[spluttering]
It's torture!
Damn it all.
My neck itches like hell!
[RIKA]
How could it be Ooishi?
I finally understand the
truth behind Oyashiro's curse.
Now confess and be done
with it, Rika Furude!
[RIKA]
What are you talking about?
[OOISHI]
All the mysterious deaths
that kept happening
during Watanagashi.
It was all you!
[RIKA]
That's completely ridiculous,
but I think you're too
far gone to hear me now.
[OOISHI shrieks]
My throat is on fire!
This itching, and the curse,
and your part of it.
It's all because of
this damn village!
[MION] Detective! As heir
to the Sonozaki Family,
I'm ready to hear you out,
so please, let her go!
You can't!
[SHION]
Mion, grab Rika!
[OOISHI]
Stay the hell outta my way!
Leave her alone!
‐‐Shion!
‐‐[RIKA] Make it stop.
[gunshot]
This can't be real.
Please stop, I'm begging you.
Shion! Mion!
[MION]
Rena.
Take care of Kei for me!
[gunshot]
No!!
[RENA]
Rika! Please, stop!
[OOISHI]
Charade is over.
You can't hide anymore,
now confess!
Rika Furude!
[RENA]
Please! Take me instead!
[RIKA] I really thought we
did everything right this time,
so how could it have
ended up like this?
[OOISHI]
What? Speak clearly.
[RIKA] Do it.
I have nothing for you.
Say it!
The secrets of
the curse die with me,
and you'll die knowing nothing.
[OOISHI]
You're gonna tell me!
[OOISHI] Tell me! Tell me!
Tell me! Tell me!
Tell me! Tell me! Tell me!
[RENA]
Satoko! Stay away!
[screams]
It's okay. You're no longer
in any danger, Rika.
[HANYUU] The pain you
feel is but a memory.
You need only calm down
and it will quickly subside.
[RIKA gasping]
Ooishi.
He's the one who killed me.
Huh?
[gasps]
Somehow I'm able to remember
who my killer was this time!
What's happening?
[HANYUU]
As I told you before.
I am only a remnant of Hanyuu
that lingers on in this space.
I have little power
left to give.
Right, and you still
have no way of escaping
from this dimension.
That's unfortunate,
because I would've really
liked to have shared
a drink with you right now.
I'd love a cream puff,
but I would rather not have
any of that red juice, please.
Please listen to me, Rika.
[RIKA]
Huh?
[HANYUU] At the cost of the
sliver of power I had left.
I've been able
to temporarily restore
all your abilities
to their full potential.
[RIKA]
Huh?
[HANYUU]
Whenever you begin a new cycle.
you shall now retain
your complete memory
of the cycle preceding it.
In other words,
every time I die,
I'll remember who my killer was.
[HANYUU] Yes, and this is
what will allow you to learn,
how to live, to fight,
to stand against fate
as one who lives in loops.
With what little is left of me,
it's as much as I can do.
[RIKA] Was that really
what you believed I wanted?
Well, you must know by now,
but this Hinamizawa...
..is not the one
from five years ago.
[RIKA]
Of course. It's different.
The first time,
Keiichi was paranoid.
He started to suspect Rena,
but I gave him a hint
that he needed to
believe in his friends.
And he took my advice, but even
so, that world ended in tragedy.
Shion went on a
rampage in the next world.
The doll that brought
that about in my Hinamizawa
ended up in Mion's hands.
And though that act put us
on a different path than before.
It still ended in my death.
I lost my memory
after that loop.
I don't know who
killed me, or how.
And if I had, maybe
I could have prevented it.
I'm sure you'll
figure it out in time.
[RIKA]
Really?
What could I figure out that
would have saved me from Ooishi?
Will I learn to dodge bullets?
[RIKA] Forgive me, I know
you're not to blame for this.
Hanyuu?
I'm sure you'll
figure it out in time.
Yes, you already said that.
Huh?
You have many wonderful
friends on your side.
Keiichi and Rena are there,
along with Mion,
and Shion, and Satoko,
and there are more besides.
You're my friend, too, Hanyuu.
[giggles]
I need you.
Having you here does more for me
than any power you can give me.
So you can't disappear!
Rika.
I could see that
your soul was exhausted
after your hundred‐year journey.
Then you broke free,
and for five years,
your weary heart had
a chance to mend,
but that will quickly be undone.
Those who live in loops are
not bound to a physical body.
Their consciousness
persists without.
And I went through
hell because of that!
For a century.
A hundred years in Hinamizawa,
caged like a bird!
Helplessly witnessing tragedy
after senseless tragedy!
It took a miracle for
Keiichi and the others
to keep my soul alive this long!
I lived through 1983 and
the five years after it,
but now I'm trapped
in this little girl's body
all over again!
I finally escaped
from that village.
I grew up, and moved on,
and started a new life!
Then suddenly,
after all those years,
I was dragged
back to Hinamizawa!
Do you understand
what that means?
Even if this new power works.
Even if I can break the cycle
again, years could pass,
and I could still wake up
in 1983 again someday!
I might never be free!
I'm so sorry.
I need to know
you're here, or else,
I'll have to fight this
endless battle by myself!
[sobs]
[HANYUU]
Rika, this is something I hoped
I would never have
cause to tell you.
But for your sake, it
shall be my parting message.
In truth, of the many
artifacts bearing my name,
there is one more holy,
one more powerful
than any other by far.
It's a sword by the
name of Onigari‐no‐ryuou.
Its blade has the ability
to sever the loops.
and offer an end
to those for whom death
is but another beginning.
It can kill
someone looping through worlds?
[HANYUU] You'll find the
sword hidden inside the statue
locked away in the
ritual tool storehouse.
Why would you tell
me about that?
Who is this looper
I'm supposed to kill?
[HANYUU] When I faded
into the sea of shards,
I didn't hope for us
to reunite like this.
But you are not just
a mere fledgling anymore.
Huh?! No!
This is our last farewell, Rika.
From here on, your life and
your future are yours to shape,
and yours alone.
Don't go!
Stop, Hanyuu!
Wait.
Please!
Don't forget to enjoy
a cream puff for me
every now and again, okay?
I could only hold on
through those hundred years
because I had you!
Please.
Don't leave me now.
I need you here!
You can't go!
I can't do this.
Please don't leave me, Hanyuu.
[sobs]
[RIKA gasps]
Hanyuu!
[SATOKO]
Well, I see you're awake.
Even on a weekend,
it's rather slovenly
of you to sleep so late.
Don't worry, I've already
gotten to work on breakfast.
Wait. Rika.
Did you wake from
a bad dream just now?
Yes, a terrible dream.
It may have been the
worst one I've ever had.
And what happened in it?
Honestly, I completely forgot.
Nipaa.
Well, if it was that bad,
maybe it's for the best
that it didn't stay with you.
Wash your face.
I need you in the kitchen.
[phone rings]
[SATAKO] Who could be
calling at this hour?
Would you mind finishing
these for me, Rika?
[RIKA] Why would you
tell me about that?
Who is this looper
I'm supposed to kill?
The answer to that is clear.
[SATOKO] We've been called
to an emergency meeting!
Mion asked us to report
for a club activity!
We need to get ready
to meet them at school
an hour from now!
[RIKA] Actually, I have some
business to take care of today.
Sorry, but I won't be
able to make the meeting.
Surely you're joking right now!
The rules clearly state,
anyone who misses a
meeting will be punished!
[RIKA]
Mii.
[SATOKO] So how urgent is
this "business" of yours?
Does it really have
to be done right away?
I suppose it's not
all that urgent.
[SATOKO] Then there's
no reason it can't wait
till after club, is there?
You know you'd regret it
when punishment
time came around.
Yeah, you're right.
I'm sure I would.
Well, that settles it, then!
Now, shall we eat?
We can take off as soon
as we finish breakfast.
Morning, Rika!
Morning. Satoko!
[MION]
Kept us waiting today.
Sorry everybody.
We had a slow start
this morning.
[KEIICHI]
You okay, Rika?
Mii...
She's been a bit out of
sorts since she woke up.
Stay up too late?
Did you not sleep well?
[SATOKO]
She said she had a bad dream,
although she couldn't
remember what it was about.
Awoo! She must've
been so cute all huddled up
under the covers
and shaking! Can I‐‐
No, you can't take her home.
Was your sister
going to come too?
Huh?
Well, honestly, I hadn't even
thought to invite Shion.
But I could call her and ask her
to come out if you want!
No, that's okay.
[KEIICHI] You really
do seem out of it today.
[RENA] Do you think you
might be getting sick?
No, it's not that.
I know! How's this?
Rika should pick the game today!
If you're feeling down,
that should cheer
you up in no time!
Yeah. Great idea!
Yes, that's perfect!
What better than a rousing game
to lift up that
flagging spirit of yours?
Sounds good!
But whatever you pick,
I'm gonna win!
What'll it be?
[RIKA]
I'd like to play hide and seek.
Hide and seek?
Not what I expected.
But it's always fun, right?
Okay, so where will
the boundaries be?
Would the school grounds work?
I should say we'll need
a bigger arena than that.
[RIKA] Any place in
Hinamizawa will be fair game.
As in the entire village?
That may be too big.
[chortles]
With my trapping skills
and knowledge of the terrain,
I certainly won't be caught.
Actually, in this version,
the only one hiding is me.
[MION]
How's that work?
[RIKA]
It's simple.
I'm going to be
somewhere in the village.
Find me by sundown and you win.
[KEIICHI]
And what happens if we can't?
If you can't,
then I'll just have to make
the journey home all by myself!
So we're gonna be racing
against the clock then.
Sounds like fun.
Looking all over Hinamizawa
should be a real challenge.
Yeah, but we're still definitely
gonna find you, Rika!
Good luck.
Don't give up, you guys!
So, would ten minutes
be enough time
for you to find a good spot?
[RIKA]
That'll be plenty.
[MION]
Then let's do it!
Hiding time starts now!
I really don't think
you'll be able to find me.
[KEIICHI] Isn't it a little
early to call the game?
Well, if you can't find me
and you feel really
sad about it later,
please know it's not your fault.
[RENA]
That was ten minutes, right?
[KEIICHI]
Yeah, let's get started!
[MION]
How 'bout we all split up?
Ol' Mion has got
a sneaking suspicion
about the school grounds.
[SATOKO]
If you're covering here,
then I'll head
for the shrine first.
[KEIICHI] I'll check along
the road to the school.
[RENA] I know a perfect
hiding spot in the village.
I'm gonna check
if Rika knows it too!
[KEIICHI]
Then we'll catch up later!
[MION]
Oh Rika!
You know there's
no hiding from me!
[MION]
And gotcha!
Oh.
[SATOKO]
Rika!
I know this is
where you're hiding,
so you may as well come out now!
[RENA]
Hey, Rika!
Are you in here?
[KEIICHI]
Rika's pretty sharp,
and this would be
an obvious spot, huh?
[KEIICHI]
We already missed sundown, too.
Rika didn't skip out
on us, did she?
[KEIICHI]
Mm.
She may have gone home
when the sun set.
That's what
she said she would do.
It looks like we're just gonna
have to take the loss this time
and ask her where
she was hiding tomorrow.
Then I'll give her a
thorough interrogation.
So that's it.
[KEIICHI]
Hold on a sec.
[ALL 3]
Huh?
Didn't it seem like Rika
was hoping that we'd find her?
I really don't think
you'll be able to find me.
Yeah, it did!
I will say she's
been acting strange
since she woke up this morning.
She just told me
she had a bad dream,
but I think it may
be something deeper
that's been troubling her.
If that's true, then we can't
give up the search yet!
The sun may have already set,
but even if we can't win
the game, we'll find Rika!
[ALL]
Mm.
[KEIICHI]
Mion!
Where's somewhere in the village
where nobody
would think to look?
[MION]
Hmm...
[gasps]
[door opens]
[RIKA]
Where is it?
It's not here.
Silly Hanyuu.
Where did it go?
Where's the sword
you had promised me?
That parting gift
I never asked you for.
You offered it to me
and now it's not here!
[laughs]
[sobs]
Huh?
It looks like there's
still enough of it left
to fulfill its ultimate purpose.
[KEIICHI]
Rika!
[SATOKO]
If you can hear us,
please come out!
[RENA]
You won, Rika!
Now come talk to us, okay?
[MION] You may have
beaten us this time.
but tomorrow's
another day, got it?
With this shard,
I finally have a way out.
Thank you, Hanyuu.
Knowing I can die when I'm ready
makes it that much
easier to go on living.
[RIKA]
Five more loops.
I'll try to set this world
right for five more loops.
And then, I'll surrender.
[RIKA] Next time:
Nekodamashi‐hen. Part Two.